%!TEX root = ecosystem.tex

% strctparam
\rSec0[strctparam]{Structured Parameters}


% strctparam.pre
\rSec1[strctparam.pre]{Preamble}

\pnum
This clause describes options, output, and formats that control the behavior of
applications through the specification of arguments and options from
\emph{structured parameters}.

\pnum
This clause specifies the \verb|std.strctparam| capability \iref{intspct.cap}
version \verb|1.0.0|.

\pnum
An application can implement this capability.

\pnum
An application that implements the \verb|std.strctparam| capability shall
include the \verb|std.strctparam| field and version value in the introspection
JSON text output \iref{intspct.schema.cap}.

% strctparam.overview
\rSec1[strctparam.overview]{Overview}

\pnum
\begin{outputblock}
@\emph{application}@ [ @\grammarterm{std-strctparam-input}@ [@\emph{file}@] ]
\end{outputblock}

\rSec1[strctparam.input]{Input Option}

\pnum
\grammarterm{std-strctparam-input}
\begin{indented}
	The pathname of a file to read the \emph{structured parameters} from. The
	option is specified as \verb@--std-param=file@ or \verb@-std-param:file@. If
	\emph{file} is ‘\verb@-@’, the standard input shall be used.
\end{indented}

\rSec1[strctparam.file]{Files}

\pnum
An application shall read a valid JSON text file that conforms to the
\emph{structured parameters} schema \iref{strctparam.schema}.

\pnum
An application shall interpret the information in the file as if the options
and arguments in the file occur in the same position as the
\grammarterm{std-strctparam-input} parameter of the list of parameters given to
the application. Given either directly as part of the application command line
or as part of the arguments field \iref{strctparam.schema.args}.

\pnum
An application shall process arguments in the file in the order that they 
appear.

\pnum
An application shall process options in the file as if the a new modified state
replaces the current state.

\rSec1[strctparam.schema]{Schema}

\pnum
A \emph{structured parameters} JSON text file shall contain one \emph{structured
parameters} JSON object \iref{strctparam.schema.obj}.

\rSec2[strctparam.schema.obj]{Structured Parameters Object}

\pnum
The \emph{structured parameters} object is the root JSON object of the 
structured parameters JSON text.

\pnum
A \emph{structured parameters} object can have the following fields.

\pnum
A \emph{structured parameters} object shall have only one of the 
\verb|arguments| and \verb|options| fields.

\rSec2[strctparam.schema.schema]{JSON Schema Field}

\begin{itemdescr}

	\pnum \fldname \verb|$schema|

	\pnum \fldtype \verb|string|

	\pnum \fldval
	The value shall be a reference to a JSON Schema specification.

	\pnum \flddesc
	A \emph{structured parameters} object can contain this field. If a
	\emph{structured parameters} object does not contain this field the value 
	shall be a reference to the JSON Schema corresponding to the current 
	edition of this standard (strctparamjschm).

\end{itemdescr}

\rSec2[strctparam.schema.ver]{Version Field}

\begin{itemdescr}

	\pnum \fldname \verb|version|

	\pnum \fldtype \verb|string|

	\pnum \fldval
	\verb|1| or \verb|1.0| or \verb|1.0.0|.

	\pnum
	\flddesc
	The version field indicates the version of the \emph{structured parameters}
	represented in the contents of the JSON text. If a \emph{Structured
	parameters} object does not contain this field the value shall be
	\verb|1.0.0|.

\end{itemdescr}

\rSec2[strctparam.schema.args]{Arguments Field}

\begin{itemdescr}

	\pnum \fldname \verb|arguments|

	\pnum \fldtype \verb|array|

	\pnum \fldval
	The value shall be a JSON \verb|array|. The items in the \verb|array| shall
	be of JSON \verb|string| types.

	\pnum \flddesc
	The arguments field specifies items to be interpreted directly as if they
	occur in the command line of the program.

\end{itemdescr}

The application shall process the items as if they replace the
\grammarterm{std-strctparam-input} argument.

\rSec2[strctparam.schema.opts]{Options Field}

\begin{itemdescr}

	\pnum \fldname \verb|options|

	\pnum \fldtype \verb|object|

	\pnum \fldval
	The value shall be a JSON \verb|object|.

	\pnum \flddesc
	A \emph{structured parameters} object can contain this \emph{structured
	options} field.  The keys of items shall be name 
	\iref{strctparam.schema.names} values.

\end{itemdescr}

\rSec3[strctparam.schema.names]{Names}

\pnum
\begin{ncbnf}

\nontermdef{name}\br
	\descr{one or more of:}\br
	\ucode{0061} .. \ucode{007A} \uname{LATIN SMALL LETTER A .. Z}\br
	\ucode{0030} .. \ucode{0039} \uname{DIGIT ZERO .. NINE}\br
	\ucode{005F} \uname{LOW LINE} \ucode{002D} \uname{HYPHEN-MINUS}

\nontermdef{scope}\br
	name \opt{scope-designator}

\nontermdef{scope-designator}\br
	\ucode{002E} \uname{FULL STOP}

\end{ncbnf}

\pnum
The \grammarterm{name} \verb|std| is reserved for \emph{structured options}
defined in this standard.

\pnum
Applications can specify vendor designated \grammarterm{name} parts outside of
this standard.

\rSec2[strctparam.schema.opt.param]{Structured Option std.param}

\pnum
The \verb|std.param| structure option defines an option to refer to additional
structured options \iref{strctparam} to process.

\pnum
An application shall implement this option.

\pnum
The \verb|std.param| option shall have the following fields.

\vspace{\baselineskip}

\begin{itemdescr}

	\pnum \fldname \verb|pre|

	\pnum \fldtype \verb|string| or \verb|array|

	\pnum \fldval (for \verb|string|) A pathname to a file containing 
	structured parameters \iref{strctparam}.

	\pnum \fldval (for \verb|array|) A list of pathname \verb|string| items to 
	files containing structured parameters \iref{strctparam}.

	\pnum \flddesc
	One or more references to files that include additional structured 
	parameters \iref{strctparam}.

\end{itemdescr}

\vspace{\baselineskip}


\begin{itemdescr}

	\pnum \fldname \verb|post|

	\pnum \fldtype \verb|string| or \verb|array|

	\pnum \fldval (for \verb|string|) A pathname to a file containing 
	structured parameters \iref{strctparam}.

	\pnum \fldval (for \verb|array|) A list of pathname \verb|string| items to 
	files containing structured parameters \iref{strctparam}.

	\pnum \flddesc
	One or more references to files that include additional structured 
	parameters \iref{strctparam}.

\end{itemdescr}

A \verb|string| value in the \verb|pre| or \verb|post| field shall be as if the 
value was given as an \verb|array| with the \verb|string| value as the only 
value in the \verb|array|.

An application shall process the structured parameters \iref{strctparam} in the 
\verb|pre| field before processing the structured options where the 
\verb|std.param| option is specified.

An application shall process the structured parameters \iref{strctparam} in the 
\verb|post| field after processing the structured options where the 
\verb|std.param| option is specified.

An application shall process the structured parameters \iref{strctparam} in the 
\verb|pre| and \verb|post| field in the order given in the value applying 
semantics as specified in the parameters or options of the structured 
parameters \iref{strctparam}.
